2. Scientific Objective
=======================
**2.2.7 Real-time X-ray Absorption Fine Structure Beamline**

**1. Introduction**

The Real-time X-ray Absorption Fine Structure (RXAFS) beamline is a
state-of-the-art tool specifically designed for X-ray absorption and
emission spectroscopy. It will be situated at the ID23 section of the
Korea-4GSR and will utilize an in-vacuum undulator as its light source.
This advanced beamline will produce highly focused and intense X-ray
beams across a wide energy range, derived from electron beams with a low
emittance of about 60 pmÂ·rad. Through offering X-ray Absorption
Spectroscopy (XAS), electronic and local structures can be unveiled by
exciting core electrons to unoccupied orbitals with an external X-ray
that matches the corresponding edges' energy.

The primary experimental technique of the RXAFS beamline is Quick X-ray
Absorption Spectroscopy (QXAS), which enables XAS measurements on a
millisecond time scale. QXAS can be utilized to study various chemical
reaction mechanisms, including the redox processes of battery materials
during charging and discharging, intermediates in catalytic reactions,
and phase transition processes in novel materials. Additionally, the
RXAFS beamline will support X-ray Emission Spectroscopy (XES), providing
in-depth insights into the electronic structure of occupied states in
novel and advanced materials using a variety of analyzer crystals and a
position-sensitive detector.

By delivering both QXAFS and XES, the RXAFS beamline is poised to play a
pivotal role in various advanced material sciences, such as batteries,
catalysts, and biomedicines, and is expected to open up new frontiers in
research.